# Source of Ecotypes and Additions from Current Theory #

> Recent work by Polz and Alm has shed light on the formation of genetic
> clusters as a consequence of ecological specialization. How do they suggest
> that ecotypes arise within a population? How does work from Polz and Alm add
> to past idea of ecotype theory?

Recently, Polz and Alm published a review [@Polz2013] which discusses the origin
of ecotypes. Ecotypes are defined as as groups of related organisms that exist
in different niches in some environment [@Cohan2002]. Each ecotype does not
compete with the others, but only amongst itself for resources. 

An example is the bacteria of the \emph{Vibrionaceae} (\V) family. Many of these
organism live near the shore but there are distinct grouping where one set is
free living and other lives on larger particulate matter in the water column
[@Hunt2008]. These groups may represent groups at various taxonomic levels, they
could be subspecies or occur at the species level.

Determining how and where such groups come into existence is an open and
difficult question. The current theory do not yet explain all observed data as
will be discussed. Recently, Polz and Alm have attempted to extend
our current understanding [@Polz2013]. The model they propose for the formation
of ecotypes is as follows.

1.  First one or more organisms develop adaptive mutations. This can arise in
    through recombination, or mutation.

    These organisms form the basis of the ancestral ecotypes.

2.  These genes then recombine into other genomes.

    The ecotype specific genes must spread through part of the population to
    create the ancestral ecotype population. The spreading is driven by
    horizontal gene transfer.

3.  This can then cause organisms to associate with different environments.

    By increasing the fitness in a particular environment the organisms become
    more likely to be found there.

4.  This ecological separation causes reduced gene flow between populations.

    Gene flow between populations depends on ecological and physical constraints.
    Organisms which have no way to interact will not share genes. At this point
    the two populations are not distinct taxonomically.

5.  If the reduced gene flow remains stable  the populations begin to
    differentiate.

    Without gene flow to homogenize the populations they will differentiate.
    This allows the two populations to become distinct taxonomically.

This model is supported by several lines of evidence. First the work of Hunt *et
al* examined the genomes of \V{} species isolated from different fractions of
coastal water [@Hunt2008]. These workers fractioned water based upon size and
characterized \V{} samples in the water. They found that even though these
organisms were extremely similar overall, they differentiated into different
niches. Furthermore, the differences they found were located to only a few
genetic regions.

Another similar line of evidence was found in the examination of differentiation
in hot springs [@Cadillo-Quiroz2012]. This work found differentiation with no
evidence of genome wide sweeps in contrast to the current theory. In this work,
workers analyzed full genomes from bacteria in hot springs. Here they found that
while there is recombination between two populations these populations are still
becoming distinct. This is because the recombination is occurring in relatively
small parts of the genome, likely the flexible region only.

A lack of genome wide sweeps is at odds with current theory that suggests that
these would be needed to create and maintain distinct ecotypes. Here it appears
that only gene level sweeps are needed. Previous theoretical work suggests that
such sweeps are necessary [@Fraser2007]. While this may be true in some
situations, the current work points out cases where this does not happen.

A second set of observations as provided by Shapiro *et al* [@Shapiro2012]. This
work extends work of Hunt *et al* to study the characteristics of genes and
genomes of populations in more detail. They found that generally only genes
sweep populations, only a few genomes have swept part of the populations and
finally the extent recombination is dependent upon time. That is to say earlier
recombination events cross population boundaries, while more recent ones tend to
be population specific. These observations contradict current theory because
there is no evidence of selection, which is believed to be needed for creation
of ecotypes.

A third set of evidence is the presence of habit specific genes in
*Prochloroccus*. It was observed that while much the genomes are identical there
are regions of genes that appear to be habit specific [@Coleman2010]. This seems
to suggest that recombination works to both maintain homogeneity within
populations while also maintaining a difference between the two populations. The
overall similarity is maintained through recombination of parts of the core
genome. This happens between the two populations. However, recombination between
members of the same population seems to serve to keep certain genes common
within a single population. This complex and seemingly contradictory role of
recombination is not covered with the current theory.

This extends current theory, which focuses on allopatric speciation and the role
of selection [@Whitaker2006], [@Cohan2002]. That is that speciation is often
caused by physical barriers between populations or selective pressure. In the
evidence presented here there is differentiation without either of these forces.

Furthermore, this work explains the divergence of organisms despite a high rate
of gene turnover. A high rate of turnover would normally indicate the genomes
are being homogenized, however this theory shows otherwise. The turnover rate
may be high within the population, but low between populations leading to
divergence.

This new theory does not overturn ecotype theory. It does explain some
observations that previous work could not, while leaving open questions
[@Shapiro2012], such as:

1. What limits the gene flow? The types of barriers that cause decreased gene
   flow are not clear form the current models. 

2. Why do genome wide selective sweeps not occur?

In summary, Polz and Alm suggest a mechanism for generation of ecotypes without
selective pressure. This is based on the gradual imposition of ecological not
physical barriers to recombination. Their theory explains some recent
observations which are not explained by existing theories.
