# Role of 16S in Differentiating Ecotypes #

> Can the 16S be used to reliably differentiate between ecotypes? Explain your
> answer.

Here I assume you mean 'can the SSU *alone* differentiate between
ecotypes'. If this is not what you meant and instead the question was 'can the
SSU, *along with many other genes,* be used to reliably differentiate ecotypes'
then the answer is obviously yes. This is what happens in all full genome
studies even if the SSU is simply ignored [@Shapiro2012], [@Hunt2008],
[@Hanage2006].

However, as that is not a very interesting question I will assume you meant
otherwise. Thus the answer is no. While the SSU can sometimes be used to
distinguish ecotypes in the correct situation, it is not reliable nor a good
idea. And in the cases where it is possible, this is only because a
comprehensive analysis was done first making an SSU based separation possible.

As the name ecotype implies, this is a classification based upon ecological
considerations. This means that ecotypes are distinguished by where they live,
what resources they use, essentially their local habit or niche is what marks
an ecotype, not just their phylogenetic lineage.

Over time distinct habits allows for reduced gene flow and thus separation of
populations. This may lead to classical speciation given long enough. At this
point it becomes possible to distinguish ecotypes by SSU sequences alone, but
prior to this ecotypes will be indistinguishable based on SSU alone.

This is because the main differences between ecotypes will be found in the
flexible genome. This will contain genes adapted to different niches. For
example, genes for attachment on to substrate, different transporters for
metabolites and different enzymes are likely targets for ecotypes specific
genes. Even using housekeeping genes makes it possible to miss classify
organisms [@Whitaker2006]. The SSU sequences are likely to be very similar,
since the populations may have only recently diverged and would easily be missed
by simpler analysis [@Hanage2006].

Using the SSU means using a classical taxonomic classification. Sometimes these
two coincide, but not always [@Hunt2008]. In the work of Hunt *et al* it is
probably possible to find at least some of the different ecotypes using SSU
sequence alone. However this is only possible because we already know the
answers. Working forward from SSU to ecotype is much more difficult. 

In addition, the cutoffs that would need to be used based on the SSU are likely
to be arbitrary and have no biological meaning. Because the SSU is not likely to
be part of the differentiation to ecotypes we would have to do some impressive
intellectual contortions to find a series of cutoffs to separation ecotypes.
These criteria are likely to change in a new situation meaning they have no
biological meaning. Instead by using criteria based upon the biology, and thus
ecology, of the organism we can find meaningful criteria using generally
applicable guidelines.

A good analysis, and what is done in the studies here, is to analyze entire
genomes. This allows the inclusion of many genes including the ones which are
differentiating to form ecotypes. 

In this analysis it may not hurt to include SSU sequence. Particularly in cases
where there is a large population diversity and the SSU and other highly
conserved sequences can be used to provide an initial grouping of tightly
related organisms. For example using the SSU to find families and genera would
be reliable. This may be useful to the overall analysis but is not sufficient
for finding ecotypes. However, this is only as a supplement and is not
strictly necessary.

Finally, the classical taxonomic classification has problems even with very
different organisms, let alone between closely related populations. For example
consider the case of *P. ingrahamii* and  *P. boydii*. Boydii and ingrahamii are
99% similar at the SSU nucleotide level yet are only less than 50% similar at
the whole genome level [@Auman2009]. Clearly these organisms are highly
different at a global level. Yet their SSU remain very similar. An analysis
based solely off SSU sequences would group these together when they should not
be.
