# Barophiles (Piezophiles) #

Like with Halophiles RNA structure is little studied in Barophiles. There are
very few genomes known and of those most, *Methanocaldococcus jannaschii*
[@Bult1996] and *Pyrocuccus abyssi* [@Cohen2003] are Archaea. The known
bacterial genome is *P. profundum strain SS9*, [@Vezzi2005].

There is much more work examining protein structure and adaptation than RNA.
Fortunately, the RNA work does examine the ribosome and is more detailed than in
Halophiles. Thus I will follow a similar pattern by beginning with discussing
the work on ribosomes and then move on to discussing the work in proteins.

## Ribosomes ##

The effect of increasing pressure on ribosomes has been studied [@Gross1990],
[@Niven1999], [Lauro2007]. Initially this work examined large scale
characteristics of the ribosome, such as assembly. However more recent work has
considered the ribosome in detail. I will begin with the broader picture and
move into the more detailed work.

The first work, Gross *et al* found that increasing pressure causes the
dissociation of \ec{} ribosomal subunits. This work took assembled \ec{}
ribosomal subunits and subjected them to high pressure. It was found that as
pressure increased the ribosomes dissembled. This suggests that ribosomes
adapted to high pressure must adapt to bind subunits tightly.

Related work by Niven *et al* [@Niven1999] performed a similar experiment *in
vivo*.

The dissociation of subunits can be explained with a simple biophysical model.
If pressure increases then the thermal force on the molecule will increase. This
is because 

$$
F_{thermal} = \gamma v_{ave}
$$ 

where $\gamma$ is the diffusion constant [@Howard2001]. The diffusion constant
for a ribosome can be approximated by 

$$
\gamma = 6 \pi \eta r
$$

where $r$ is the radius of the ribosome treated as a sphere and $\eta$ is the
viscosity of the solution, in this case water [@Howard2001]. Generally, as
pressure increases the viscosity of water increases [@Schmyhelzer2005]. This
leads to an increase in $\gamma$ and thus an increase in the thermal force.

An increased thermal force means the binding energy to maintain an intact
ribosome increases. Because \ec{} ribosomes are not adapted to high pressure
they do not have a high enough binding energy to stay assembled in high
pressure. 

This effect is similar to increasing the temperature. In increased temperature
the $v_{ave}$ increases because:

$$
v_{ave} = \frac{3kT}{m}
$$

where $T$ is temperature, $m$ is mass and $k$ is Boltzmann's constant
[@Howard2001]. This highlights an unexpected connection between adapting to high
pressure and adapting to adapting to high temperature. Both will require
increased binding strength though they may go about it in different ways.

I must point out that this is a very simple model. I am assuming that viscosity
always increases with pressure. Sadly, the situation is not that simple
[@Schmyhelzer2005]. Schmelzer *et al* point out that it is possible for the
viscosity to decrease at low temperatures [@Schmyhelzer2005]. However, this
model does seem to explain data so it is worth considering.

What adaptations would this increased pressure provoke? Well we would want
increased binding between the LSU and SSU. This suggests that the bridges
between the two subunits. Some bridges are RNA/RNA while others are RNA/protein.
Bridges play an important role in translocation [@Liu2013]. Some of them must
break and be reformed during the process while others remain constant. Thus we
could expect that the bridges which do not break during translocation, would
adapt to bind more tightly to each other. However, this adaptation would pose a
problem. Many barophiles are also cold adapted. The cold adaptation would
suggest the bridges bind less tightly, indicating to me that there are competing
pressures in barophilic adaptation.

Niven *et al* found that the \ec ribosomes may enter a less stable conformation
at high pressure [@Niven1999]. In this work they subjected whole \ec{} cells to high
pressure. They monitored changes in temperature using differential scanning
calorimetry. They found that there was an increase in the temperature changes
associated with ribosomes. This indicates that the ribosomes are changing shape.
As the cells die from this treat they propose that the ribosome enter a less
stable and functional state as pressure increases [@Niven1999]. 

Therefore, the ribosome must adapt to maintain a functional shape at high
pressure. This could involve such things as more stable structures that can
resit the pressure or structures which function in their pressure induced shape.
As many barophiles are psychrophiles I am inclined to suggest they adapt to
function in their alternative conformation.

The aforementioned work deals with ribosomes on a large scale and does not drill
down to examine the detailed structure. Work by Lauro *et al* examined sequences
from ribosomes of barophiles allowing us a clearer picture of observed changes
[@Lauro2007].

These workers sequenced some newly isolated barophiles. They found that
barophilic organisms have longer helices, particularly in the h10 and h11
helices. In addition, they examined a previously known barophile and found that
it changed the SSU it used as pressure increased. This organism switched to a
SSU with a longer h10, h11 and h44 (They call this h49 but the positions they
list are for h44 and there is no h49 in \ec ribosomes, so I'm gonna call it
h44). h44 is a key helix as it contains bridges and the decoding site. Mutations
of those bridges can lead to death of the organism [@Liu2013]. This lends
credence to the idea that the bridges adapting to function at high pressure. It
is possible that other helices increase length but it was not noted by these
authors. An attractive hypothesis is that other helices lengthen in other
organisms that simply have not been studied yet. 

Their analysis only looked at the whole helical element and did not consider the
roles of loops versus the stem regions. I would suspect that the loops of these
organisms increases more than the helical regions. We have seen that it is the
loop regions which contact protein and create long range contacts in the RNA
(unpublished data). The helices make much fewer contacts with RNA and protein.
Work in DNA shows that helices are sensitive to pressure and may adopt different
structures at high pressure [@Amiri2011].

Lauro *et al* point out that barophiles share many sequence similarities with
psychrophiles. This would seem to indicate that organisms first adapt to the
cold then to high pressure. This would indicate a conflicting needs for the
organism. Maintaining cold adaptation and pressure adaptation would be a
comprise between different needs.

They also point out that adapting to pressure often brings about an adaptation
to a higher temperature [@Lauro2007] which fits with the earlier model of effect
of thermal forces on ribosomes.

## Proteins ##

Protein must also adapt to barophilic conditions. We will explore these changes
to see if any changes could be found in ribosomes. Di Giulo examined the changes
in amino acids between aligned proteins of \emph{Pyrococcus abyssi}, a
barophile, and \emph{Pyrococcus furiosus}, a nonbarophilic relative. He found
that the proteins end to have more polar amino acids and smaller amino acids
[@DiGiulio2005b]. 

How can we apply this lesson to ribosomal adaptation? We have limited building
blocks in RNA with only 4 units, A, C, G and U. The size constraint could
indicate we would have more C and U as they are smaller than A and G. However,
this is unlikely as the ribosome must maintain the structure of its helices. In
addition changing base composition will not drastically alter the charge of the
ribosome. Instead we can consider modifications which can alter size and charge.

Polarity be increased through modification by adding charged groups to the
molecule. For example, we can modify a A to I (inosine) by replacing the \nh{}
group with a O or we can add a methyl to a G to form 1-methylguanosine. Of the
modifications we would expect to see ones that add polar groups, so
methylguanosine would not be favored. In addition, we would not expect additions
of large groups, so something like 5-(isopentenylaminomethyl)-2'-O-methyluridine
is unlikely. Instead I would predict we see things like inosine or thiocytidine.
These are modifications which add small charged groups the base.

There is also work which examines the protein expression in barophiles
[@Pavlovic2005]. This work shows an increased expression of EF-G and EF-Tu upon
increased pressure. I interpret this to mean that protein/RNA binding is
disrupted upon increased pressure, leading me to suggest that adaptation to
high pressure would increase the strength of protein/RNA contacts. 

In summary, adapting to barophilic conditions requires a large range of changes.
We have examined some literature on such adaptations, both for RNA and for other
biological molecules. From this exploration I we can expect the ribosome to
adapt to have strong binding between it's subunits through mutations in the
bridge regions [@Lauro2007], more small polar modifications [@DiGiulio2005b] and
increased binding strength with proteins [@Pavlovic2005].
