# Halophiles #

Halophiles are organisms that are adapted to high salt concentrations. This
adaptation is seen in many branches of life. I will only focus on bacteria,
however, I would like to say there is a great deal of work on this subject in
Archaea. In fact, we have many structures of Archaeal large ribosomal subunits
(LSU) [@Evers1994], [@Hansen2003], [@Klein2001a], [@Schmeing2005] to name a few.
In addition, there has been quite a bit of work on the biology of these
organisms. Since that is not the focus of this question so I will ignore it. I
will instead examine work in bacteria.

Some bacteria adapt to high external salt by increasing the concentration of
internal ions such as potassium (\K) [@Oren2002]. Doing so requires a series of
adaptations to their constituent molecules [@Mongodin2005]. Of particular
interest is the ribosome. I will summarize and predict possible changes to the
ribosome by examining the primary literature.

The majority of the work on adaptations of ribosomes to high salt seems to focus
on broad scale changes, such as the ability of the subunits to bind and
function. I will discuss these observations first. However because there are not
many papers dealing directly with this subject, I will then examine the changes
that occur in protein structure to predict analogous changes at a more detailed
level. Finally, I will look at distinct source of data. That is the literature
on the effects of ion concentration on RNA structure and stability.  This
question has been addressed at length in order to better understand in vitro
folding and structure studies. It is an important source of insight for
questions about RNA structure in high salt. The normally artificial conditions
studied here may be physiological in these extermophiles. (I'd like to point
out that it hurts not to cite a bunch of reviews in an introduction like this.)

## Ribosomes ##

Much of the study of ribosomes an halophiles concerns the effect of chloride
ions on the stability of the ribosome [@Choquet1989], [@Kamekura1984],
[@WYDRO1977]. This is not directly what we are interested in, but it can provide
insights. The two papers show that ribosomes do not bind polyU or messages as
well in the presence of chloride ions [@Choquet1989], [@Kamekura1984],
[@WYDRO1977]. They show that this seems to be due to the inability of the
ribosomes to bind mRNA.

These studies indicate that ribosomes are very sensitive to negative charges.
This could be because of an excess of positive charges on the surface of the
molecules, or at least increase of positive charges near the anti-Shine Dalgrano
sequence. This suggests changes in bound molecules or modifications to the RNA.
mRNA is not heavily modified but the ribosome is. So any modifications would
take place in the rRNA. 

Alternatively, there could be no modifications to the rRNA and instead the
increase in negative ions simply strips off the positive ions that are shelding
the charge phosphate backbones from each other. This would then make it harder
for RNA molecules to bind each other.

This high level picture of the ribosome is not enough to make concrete
suggestions for structural changes. We need to explore more detailed studies to
do so. Sadly, I was not able to find such detailed work in ribosomes. However,
there is work on protein that we can reference.

## Proteins ##

Key work in the field of protein adaptation to ions includes the work by Paul
*et al*. In this work the authors did a comparative analysis of genomes from
halophiles and related nonhalophilic species across both Archaea and bacteria.
They studied questions of both changes in the genome composition and protein
composition. I will only discuss the changes in proteins. Proteins were found to
have fewer hydrophobic residues, fewer helices and more acidic residues
[@Paul2008]. A similar study which examined the genome of \emph{Salinbacter
ruber} showed an increased amount of acidic residues as well [@Mongodin2005].
Both studies show decreased amounts of basic residues.

Can these changes be replicated in RNA? One way would be to change the types of
modifications to RNA. It would be possible to add acidic modifications to the
surface of ribosomes by adding modifications such as 5-hydroxyuridine which is
acidic. I should point out this modification inhibits RNA polymerase
[@Roy-Burman1966] and has only been observed in tRNA. There roughly 100 other
known modifications to RNA so we may see other changes.

We would also expect a decrease in basic modifications and hydrophobic
additions. Additionally, we may see unique modifications to RNA structure. This
would be the most exciting outcome I think.

My argument for increased acidic modifications seems to contradict the earlier
statements about sensitivity to chloride ions. One possible explanation is that
the sensitivity to chloride ions was detected in \emph{Vibrio costicola}, an
organism that does not concentrate \K{} ions but instead uses organic solutes.
This is very different from \emph{Salinbacter ruber} which does increase it's
internal potassium concentration [@Oren2002]. These differences could be key in
understanding the types and roles of changes in ribosomes to halophilic
conditions.

## Ions and RNA ##

I think the most fruitful part literature to examine will be the work on the
effects ions and metal on RNA structure. It is well known that RNA 3D structure
is highly sensitive to ion concentration. This is often studied to understand
the limitations and accuracy of *in vitro* folding and stability assays. It has
been found that these ions can affect several distinct processes, such as
folding of the RNA into a particular shape or the stability of the molecule. \K
is the most common ion *in vitro* and as such it's effect on RNA folding and
stability has been extensively studied. There is much work examining the role of
ions on folding [@VanderMeulen2012], however, I will not discuss it here.
Instead I will discuss some of the known effects of ions in structure and
suggest changes we may expect in halophilic rRNA.

Changes in ion concentration can alter the structure of RNA in very surprising
ways. An extreme example of this is in Popenda *et al* [@Popenda2004]. They
determined the structure of a helix in 6M \naclo{} and found it forms a left
handed helix. This structure has never been observed in nature and is unlikely
to ever been seen. However, this does show how drastically ions can effect
folding and structure. 

A more realistic example is the work of Shiman *et al* [@Shiman2000]. These
workers found that \K{} can stabilize 3D structure strongly. In addition, Conn
*et al* found that a specific RNA structure requires a buried \K{} ion in order
to form [@Conn2002]. These workers found a buried \K{} ion in a ribosomal RNA
fragment. Energy considerations indicates that this site must be occupied in
order for the structure to form. In addition, work on ribozymes shows that the
function can be dependent upon ions [@Beaudoin2008]. This ribozyme requires a
G-quadruplex structure that

These three studies suggest that ribosomes from halophiles will require \K{} to
form into their correct shape stable shape. This could take the form of large
complex structures. An examination of the structure in Conn *et al* suggests a
junction like motif. It is then possible that the junctions in halophiles would
be larger and contain many long range interactions. This would allow for a
complex folding using the \K{} ions. If the ribosome did not evolve to 
require of high salt, it is possible the folding in high salt would lead to
incorrect nonfunctional structures.

Work by Garcia Garcia *et al* shows that RNA/protein interactions are dependent
upon ion strength [@Garcia-Garcia2003]. Large concentrations of internal \K{}
ions could then disrupt the interactions between the ribosome and key factors.

I would then hypothesize changes in the RNA and protein to increase the
strengths of interactions. This would likely take the form of increased loop
sizes for loops contacting proteins and more charged residues in the protein.
