# Diagram of States of a Molecular Machine #

> First, molecular machines, like their man-made, macroscopic counterparts, pass
> sequentially through well-defined states in a cyclic and repetitive fashion to
> carry out their functions. __Pick two different molecular machines, one of which
> should be the ribosome, the other a molecular machine of your choice, and make
> diagrams to show the states (in functional order) that each passes through to
> carry out the particular function and explain what distinguishes each state
> from the others. Also provide a list with a little more explanation describing
> each state and explaining what happens in the transition between each pair of
> states.__  You can do this on paper or electronically using a drawing program
> and pasting in your drawings

## Translocation in the Ribosome ##

1.  This is the unrotated state of the ribosome with a tRNA/polypeptide in the
    A-site and a tRNA in the P-site.

2.  Here the 16S has rotated and the tRNAs enter a hybrid state. In the hybrid
    state the LSU end of A-site tRNA is in the P-site and the P-site tRNA is in
    the E-site.

3.  Here EF-G has bound with GTP to the ribosome in the hybrid state.

4. Here EF-G has canalized GTP to GDP while the ribosome stays in the hybrid
   state.

5. Here EF-G and Pi has been released and the tRNAs have moved fully into the P
   and E sites.

## ATP Synthase ##

1. This is the initial state. The first protomer is empty, the second has ATP
   and the final one contains ADP + Pi

2. Here the central stalk has rotated to the second protomer. This causes the
   first to enter a state where it binds ADP + Pi loosely, the second then
   releases the bound ATP. The final one catalyzes the reaction of ADP + Pi to ATP.

3. Here the stalk rotates again. This makes the first protomer catalytic, the
   second then binds ADP + Pi and the third is empty.
