# Other differences in Molecular Machines #

> Next try to identify as many ways other ways as you can identify in which
> nano- and macroscopic machines are different. Give concrete examples and
> illustrations (use links to illustrations, animations, etc.) to clarify and
> illustrate your points. This is an open-ended question - I’ll be interested to
> see what you find!

1.  Role of friction and inertia.

    Friction in a macroscopic machine is a much smaller factor than in a
    nano-machine. Nano-machines are dominated by friction while macroscopic machines
    are dominated by inertia.

2.  Made of physically distinct objects.

    In a macroscopic machine there are
    distinct parts. For example, in a car the steering wheel is something
    completely separate from the wheels. They are not one continuous object. In
    nano-machines however this is not true. Often all the parts are one continuous
    molecule and they can't be easily separate without breaking the molecule in
    question.

3.  Work on differences in energy.

    A macroscopic machine works because of a heat difference or an eletrical
    potential difference. Nanoscale machines are too small to create or maintain
    such differences. They do not require them to function. Instead they use
    differences in concentrations of molecules

4.  Macroscopic machines have one distinct pathway to function.

    This is to say that the drive shaft of a car always rotates in the same way
    every time. We could trace the path it takes perfectly each time. There are no
    deviations. On the other hand, a nanoscale machine does not work like this. One
    part may travel in a slightly different path each time the machine cycles. The
    overall pathway may be the same without the individual motions being identical.


5.  Types of useful components.

    Nanomachines don't seem to have nearly as many types components as a
    macroscopic machine. For example there are many types of macroscopic gears.
    Consider for example the wikipedia page on
    [gears](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gear) [@Ikipedia]. That lists at least 16
    different classes of gears. How many gear like parts are their in nanoscale
    machines? The only I can think of is the ATP syntatase.

6. Variety of substances used.

    A molecular machine is composed of much fewer substances than a macroscopic
    machine. For example the ribosome is protein and RNA. A car on the other hand is
    made of at least metal, plastic, rubber, and silicon
