# Calculating Frictional Forces #

> Peter Moore says in his review that at the nanoscale "Frictional forces are
> King." Do these calculations to test that statement:  Calculate the frictional
> force (aka "drag" or "viscous force") for a water molecule, a tRNA, a 100 kD
> protein and a 70S ribosome using this
> [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoEMT6hLl5eZdFZtemFSTWM0em9ZdU1LU2Y5c2FyQkE#gid=2)
>
>
> Also calculate (for comparison) the gravitational forces on these particles as
> well as the centrifugal forces at 100,000g (ultracentrifuge!). Use the
> spreadsheet but also write out your calculations on paper to make sure units
> cancel properly. Compare your values with those in the review (for 70S) and in
> the book (for 100kD protein). Also compare the frictional forces to the forces
> holding atoms together in covalent bonds. As an example use a typical bond
> energy of 400 kJ/mole to calculate the energy of one bond and from this
> calculate the force constant (kappa) assuming a harmonic oscillator with PE =
> the bond energy. Approximate as F = 2PE/(bond length). See if you get numbers
> in the range for covalent bonds on p. 11 in the book. __Reflect on what you
> learn from these calculations here.__

We can compute covalent forces as follows:

$$
\begin{array}{rcl}
PE & = & 400 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{mole}} \\
   & = & 400000 \frac{\mathrm{J}}{\mathrm{molecule}}
\end{array}
$$

This is a bit larger than the values on p. 11 but not too much. It is of the
correct magnitude.

I don't know what you mean by using $F = 2PE / l$. The units there do not work
out. If PE is bond energy then it would be in J then F would be in J/m, which is
not force. Maybe you mean that F there is the force constant, which is normally
written as $\kappa$. That does have the correct units. In this case it would be
\num[round-precision=3,round-mode=figures,scientific-notation=true]{7272727}
$\frac{\mathrm{J}}{\mathrm{nm}}$ assuming a bond length of 110 pm. 

Here I can see the gravitational force is tiny compared to friction. Consider
the frictional force on a complete ribosome is roughly 270pN while the
gravitational force is roughly $10^{-8}$pN. And even increasing it by 100,000
with an ultracentrifuge is still tiny compared to friction. We can safely ignore
gravity in this situation. Unless we are in an ultracentrifuge and measuring
something that takes several hours motion will be unaffected by gravity.
However, the frictional force is nowhere near the covalent force meaning the
molecules cannot be pulled apart because of friction.
