# Modeling Motion in the Ribosome #

> Have a look at some of the movies of ribosomes produced by the
> [Ramakrishnan](http://www.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/ribo/homepage/mov_and_overview.html)
> and [Steitz](http://www.yale.edu/steitz/movies.html) groups. Pick two,
> identify them and describe what they show. __Explain how these are made --
> don't just use the word "morphing" -- explain what that means. How are these
> movies useful? How can then be misleading? Are they realistic? If not why not?__

For Steitz's videos I will discuss the one called 'Ribosome Motion Movie'. It
concerns the differences between head motion and ratcheting can be found at:
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvTVql-Fhd8](). This video shows very specific
motions in the ribosome. It compares the movment of the head region of the SSU
to the overall ratcheting movment of the SSU. The head movment involves the
bending of the neck region to bring the head closer to the body without much
movment in the body of the SSU. Ratcheting is the process where the SSU as a
whole twists relative the the LSU. These are two distinct motions that often
happen together. Head movement and ratcheting occur in translocation and can
hapen at the same time. However, they are different things and should be
considered seperate.

The Ramakrishnan movie I will discuss is the once concerning decoding, which is
found at:
[http://www.mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk/ribo/homepage/movies/New\_decoding\_minor\_musical\_opt2\_title-comp1.mov]().
This video shows the process of decoding in the ribosome. It features the
binding of a tRNA/EF-Tu complex to the ribosome and the release of tRNA from
EF-Tu and entry to the ribosome.

Movies like the ones linked are made via 'morphing' one structure into another.
This process begins with two structures which define the endpoints of the motion
to model. A program then computes a trajectory between the two states. This
could mean simply finding the shortest distance each atom would need to move to
get from one state to another with no concern for physical constraints. Or it
could mean using molecular dynamics simulations to determine a realistic series
of steps the molecule could take. From what I have seen the processes used are
more likely a mix of the two.  There will be some relatively fixed trajectory to
take with some minimal checking of physical constraints to ensure nothing too
silly is generated.

I couldn't find the paper where Ramakrishnan published the video I'm interested
in so I can't see exactly what software was used. Judging by how the tRNA tries
to fit several times it is more complex than the tools used in the Steiz video.
The Steitz video uses PyMol to do this [@Polikanov2012]. It seems there is a
simple `morph` command [http://pymolwiki.org/index.php/Morph]() which can do
this. Neat. Looking around for a citation as to how this works has produced
nothing. I think we'll need to email authors to find out the details of this
method.

Movies such as these are useful for certain purposes but very misleading and not
realistic. I will begin with why they are misleading. Most motions a molecule is
undergoing are due to thermal noise [@Moore2012]. These motions are randomly
directed and may or may not contribute to the overall function. However, the
movies show simple, clean, directed motions. There is a complete absence of
random motion that has nothing to do with process being studied. The thermal
motions also occur on a much faster time scale than the motions being shown here
[@Moore2012]. This means that a physical accurate movie would show lots of
twitching and bouncing around with only sometimes the motion we are interested
in.

In addition, the movie gives a sense of order that does not exist. For example
in the deconding video we see a L7/L12 'reach out' for the tRNA/EF-Tu complex as
it trying to pull it in. This is not realistic at all. Those proteins are
constantly flopping around there is no directed motion toward the EF-Tu complex.
Also each step in this video occurs sequentially. We don't go from diffsing
toward the ribosome then away then back again. Then tRNA hitting the wrong part
of the ribosome for a bit then falling off. Then L7/L12 flopping out then proper
binding occuring, etc. Even though the process I described may be more likely
than the clean one shown there.

However, physical realism is not always useful. We are trying to understand the
function of the ribosome so to do this we need to simplify the process as much
as possible to remove distractions. We need to ignore motions that have nothing
to do with function to get the basic understanding of the process. For example,
if we had a physically realistic movie and showed it to a student not well
versed in biophysics and ribosome function it would be useless to her. She will
not know what motions are important or which are just noise. It would be much
more useful to present the simplified movie which only shows the motions of
interest. Such as showing the Steitz movie when discussing ratcheting.

Physical realism can be useful in other situations. If we want to create better
molecular dynamics simulations then a physically realistic movie could be
useful. Such a movie would provide data for modelers to use in building their
simulations. 

So the movies are misleading in that they do not present what is actually
happening because they do not include the realistic motions. However, this is
useful because the realistic picture has so many random motions that it is not
useful for understanding the function. Thus the question of useful depends on
your goals, while the realism and misleading questions can be objectively
answered.
