# Energy Usage of Molecular Machines #

> A third reason for using this term is that molecular machines consume energy
> stored in a chemical fuel. Unlike macroscopic machines, however, molecular
> machines convert the stored chemical energy (potential energy) directly into
> work, without first converting the energy to heat (as in internal combustion
> or steam engines) or electricity (as in electric motors). __For two different
> molecular machines, one of which should be the ribosome, identify the fuel
> molecule(s) involved (for the ribosome there is more than one type!) and
> calculate how many fuel molecules are consumed for each successful cycle of
> the machine. What assumptions are you making in calculating this number? Then
> calculate the amount of free energy released by consuming this fuel and
> compare to the physical work (for displacing objects) and chemical work (for
> doing reactions) where this is available for your two machines.__


## The ribosome ##

1. The fuel molecules are GTP and the aminoacyl tRNA's.

2.  Each successful cycle, that is each GTP uses 4 GTP's and 1 aminoacyl tRNA.
    I'm defining cycle as everything that is needed for a tRNA to enter the
    ribosome and go through all steps before then leaving. 

    I'm assuming that the ribosome functions perfectly. That is does not
    hydrolyze a GTP and then do nothing. Or that the tRNA's not fall off the
    ribosome on their own. In addition, I assume that accommodation works 
    correctly.

3. The free energy released roughly $-12 \frac{kJ}{mol}$ for the GTP and 
$-32 \frac{kJ}{mol}$ for the aminoacyl tRNA.

## ATP syntase ##

1. The fuel are hydrogen ions and ADP + Pi.

2.  Each cycle uses 3 hydrogen molecules and three sets of ADP + Pi. 

    I assume that the motor is processive. That it does not make mistakes such
    as turning the wrong way or allowing a hydrogen through without turning.

3. This data is not available as far as I can see.
