# Definition of a Brownian Ratchet and Alternative Theories #

> Define more precisely what a Brownian ratchet mechanism involves. What is the
> alternative theory about how the energy released by GTP hydrolysis is used to
> drive translation? 

A Brownian ratchet mechanism is one where the random motions of a molecule are
rectified into directed motions. This rectification is how random motion is
turned into directional motion. The rectification occurs by using energy to
reset the machine. The energy is not used to push or pull like a macroscopic
machine, but instead to select the correct type of motion.

An alternative theory is that of a power-stroke machine. These machines function
by creating mechanical tension which is then released to create directional
motion. Energy is used to create or release tension, not to rectify movement.  In
these machines there is still random motion however this motion is biased by
the release of tension. It does not take much force, only a few pico-newtons to
bias movement in a particular direction. %CITE

It is important to note that in both mechanisms there is random motion and it
helps drive both types of machines. The key difference is how that random motion
is biased. In the first it is done through rectification, while in the second
mechanical force is used.

The question of how translation is driven is imprecise. There are several
different steps in translation and all may be driven by different steps.  I will
ignore initiation and termination for now, because we have few structures from
these steps, and just discuss elongation/translocation. It is possible that the
mechanisms we see in elongation/translation are not the ones used in other
steps. However without more information about those steps it is hard to propose
any hypothesis. 

In elongation/translation there are 4 different machine steps that need to
occur. First is accommodation of the tRNA/EF-Tu into the ribosome. Secondly, is
movement of the tRNA from the A-site to P-Site driven by EF-G, them P-Site to
E-Site and finally leaving the E-Site. From structures we know that
accommodation and movement from the A-site to P-site are speed up with protein
factors [@Moore2012]. 

I don't know of any work that looks at movement from P to E or E off the
ribosome, but I also don't know of any work that rules out an effect from
protein factors on these steps. It is possible that energy is used here, or it
could be these steps are part of moving from the A site to P site and they can't
be separated. For now I will treat them as part of the movement from A site to P
site. It is reasonable to treat them this way as there are no separate protein
that drive these processes. I would like to point out that it is still possible
these steps are effected by EF-G however.

This leaves us with two distinct steps to consider. First is accommodation, or
the movement of the tRNA into the A-site as driven by EF-Tu. The second is the
movement of the A-site tRNA to the P-site driven by EF-G, I will refer to this
as translocation. I will argue that accommodation is a power-stroke process
while translocation is a Brownian ratchet.

Accommodation is a power-stroke mechanism. My argument for this is very simple.
Power-stroke machines work by building some tension, which is then released to
drive directional motion. This is precisely what happens with tRNA. The
tRNA/EF-Tu complex binds the ribosome and if it is the cognate tRNA it is
deformed. This causes EF-Tu to cleave GTP and release from the tRNA. This tRNA
the relaxes to an unstrained state and in doing so moves into the A-site. Here
we see tension being created through the binding of tRNA to the ribosome. This
then released by GTP cleavage and the release creates a directional movement.

On the hand, translocation is a Brownian ratchet. In this process EF-G binds to
the ribosome. In the ribosome the tRNA in the A-site alternates between being
bound to the A-site and hybrid state where the LSU end is in the P-site and the
SSU end is still in the A-site. This motion happens in the absence of any factor
and is driven by random motion, however it may be sped up by EF-G
[@Belardinelli2013]. EF-G cleaves a GTP which causes a domain to move down into
the A-site. This then biases motions to make the hybrid state more likely. With
the hybrid state stabilized it is possible for the tRNA to diffuse into the
P-site. Because the protein is in the A-site the tRNA can not occupy it
leading to translocation. 

This mechanism does not have the key characteristics of a power-stroke, namely
creation and release of mechanical tension. However it does have several
characteristics of Brownian ratchets. That is biased movements being generated
by energy. This does not exclude some of the energy from GTP hydrolysis being
used for other things however. For example, it's possible the energy for
hydrolysis is used to disrupt tRNA/SSU contacts to promote movement.
