# Coupling in Molecular Machines #

> The previous questions concern how nano- and macro-scopic machines are
> similar. Let's now think about how they are different. First, let's start with
> something Peter Moore says: "The motions of the components of a macroscopic
> machine are perfectly coupled." __Explain what this means and discuss whether
> the same is true of a nano-scale machine like the ribosome. What experiments
> and or calculations inform your answer (i.e. what is the evidence for
> concluding one way or the other)?__

Coupling means that motion on one region drives motion in another. For example,
when I turn my car steering wheel to the right the wheels turn right and then my
car turns right. Perfect coupling means that every time the steering wheel turns
so do the wheels and thus the whole car. If it was not perfectly coupled then
sometimes when I turn the wheel right the car may go left, or up, or even keep
going straight. If the steering wheel had no effect on the motion of the wheels
then we would say they are uncoupled. This would have seriously detrimental
effects on my ability to travel.

Molecular machines are not perfectly coupled. We will examine the case of
movements in the SSU. If movements of the head and body were coupled then every
time the head moved the body would move as well. However, examinations of
cryo-em structures has shown that these motions are correlated but only loosely
coupled [@Rodnina2011a]. This means that they generally occur together but they
do not necessarily happen together and do not occur in some fixed order. This
proves they are not coupled since one can happen without the other.
