# Energy Storage in Molecular Machines #

> Like macroscopic machines, molecular machines are made of modular parts that
> have specific functions and that undergo characteristic motions. We will address
> this aspect of molecular machines after you look at some movies. Macroscopic
> machines have components for conserving momentum and using it to move between
> states that generate power (“power strokes”). An example is the flywheel in a
> car engine. __After you do calculations on frictional forces, reflect on whether
> you expect to find components that behave like flywheels in nano-scale machines.__

This very much depends on what you mean by 'like flywheels'. There are several
ways this statement can be interpreted. I will discuss them below.

If by 'like flywheels' you mean things which function to store energy then the
answer is clearly yes. Consider ATP for example. It clearly is used to store
energy in the cell. If there were no energy storage it is hard to image how the
cell could function.

On the other hand, 'like flywheels' could mean something which uses some sort of
mechanical process to store energy. This is also true. Examples of such a device
include the tension in the tRNA that is used to drive motion into the A site or
the energy stored in the head of kinesin that is released as a power stroke
[@Howard2001].  Both of these are fundamentally mechanical things that store
energy. Though they do so in a very different way than a flywheel.

A third meaning would be 'something that stores energy using rotational
inertia.' Here the answer is no. Friction is too strong at the nanoscale to
allow for significant inertia, which is required for the function of a flywheel.
Examining Table \ref{table-5} we can see that a tRNA
\num[round-precision=3,round-mode=figures,scientific-notation=true]{.00218} nm
before it's direction is randomized. If there were a flywheel of the same
characteristics of a tRNA it would only be able to rotate that far before
beginning random motion. 

This randomization is because friction is so high that there is no significant
inertia. Without inertia the flywheel, or any molecule, will not keep moving in
the desired direction. In addition, there is a strong thermal force which is
randomly directed. The combination of the two means that inertia cannot be used
to store energy as it will be quickly stripped by friction and the motion after
some very short time will be random. A randomly moving object is not very useful
for storing energy. If we look at the translation time we see that it is only
1.24 picoseconds. This means we only have ballistic motion for that long before
the thermal and frictional forces take over and produce diffusive motion. This
indicates how strong friction and weak inertia is at this scale.
