# Thermal Forces on Nano-Machines #

> Peter Moore states that at 310K, the average thermal force experienced by a
> 70S ribosome, due to collisions with the surrounding solvent molecules, is
> $\sim$ 270 pN (pico-Newtons). __Explain how to calculate this force
> using basic molecular biophysics, summarized in the book "Mechanics of Motor
> Proteins and the Cytoskeleton."__ Carry out the calculations on this
> spreadsheet starting with the data that is already there and adding additional
> calculations.  Calculate average thermal forces for other size particles
> listed on the
> [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AoEMT6hLl5eZdFZtemFSTWM0em9ZdU1LU2Y5c2FyQkE#gid=2).

The thermal force can be thought of the force due to the molecule moving
through the medium. This needs to take into account the size of the molecule and
how fast it is moving. A larger molecule will have more impacts and thus
experience more force. In addition a molecule moving faster will impact harder
so experience more force. We can compute this using the frictional coefficient
and the average velocity due to the molecules kinetic energy. We multiply the
two values to get the thermal force. The frictional coefficient takes into
account the exposed surface area of the molecule as well as what it is moving
through, while the average velocity deals with how fast the molecule is moving.
It scales proportionally with temperature and inversely with mass. Thus a
molecule in a hotter place will experience more force while a larger molecule
will experience less.

A sample calculation for water is below. Values are taken from the spreadsheet.

$$
\begin{array}{rcl}
F_{thermal} &=& \gamma <v> \\
F_{thermal} &=& 6.63 \frac{\mathrm{pNs}}{\mathrm{m}} * \num[round-precision=3,round-mode=figures,scientific-notation=true]{655} \frac{\mathrm{m}}{\mathrm{s}} \\
            &=& \num[round-precision=3,round-mode=figures,scientific-notation=true]{2380}\mathrm{pN}
\end{array}
$$
