# Mechanical Parts in the Ribosome #

> Machines have mechanical components like hinges, levers, latches, shafts, etc.
> Make a list of mechanical components from macroscopic machines and identify
> which ones might have analogues in molecular machines and which ones likely
> don't. Study the movies on these websites and 30S ribosome structure (2D and
> 3D) with and without tRNAs using SwissPDBviewer to identify regions which
> might be acting as such mechanical components -- RNA as well as proteins. Also
> use Pubmed to search for papers that have identified by experiment or
> simulation or created through nano-engineering modular parts out of RNA, DNA,
> or Protein, and used them to build new molecular machines. Open-ended question
> to search the literature! 

There are many different types of components in macroscopic machines. Below is a
partial list. Some of these may have analogues nanoscale components, those that
do have comments about them, while those that do not have no comments in the
list.

1. Lever

    This has a nanoscale analog. As an example consider the kinesin molecule.
    These have a small lever arm to help magnify the movement of the elastic domain.

2. Hinge

    This may have an example at the nanoscale. For example, looking at the video of
    the ribosome head movements [@Polikanov2012] shows that the body remains stable
    while the head 'bends' inward. This seems to imply something like a hinge exists
    between the head and the body in the neck region.

3. Latch

4. Crank shaft

5. Gear

6. Wheel

7. Caliper

8.  Break Pad

    Interestingly, there is no need for such a thing at the nanoscale. Things
    are always braked by their viscous environment making this component 
    unneeded.

9. Piston

10. Rail

11. Chain

12. Spokes

13. Belt

14. Spring

    On the nanoscale all bonds are springs. In addition an entire molecule such as a
    tRNA can be treated as a spring. This is often important in things like
    accommodation. These are likely to be key and common parts of nano-machines.

15. Axel

    This may have an analogy. If we consider the rotated state of the ribosome we
    find that the entire SSU rotates relative to the LSU. We can see this in the
    Steiz video [@Polikanov2012]. This seems to happen around a single part of the
    ribosome. That part is a bridge between the SSU and the LSU which could be
    considered an axle.

16. Pawls

    This may have an example at the nanoscale. The recent structures of the ribosome
    in translocation show that during translation bases from the SSU intercalate
    into the mRNA and may act like pawls [@Zhou2013]. However, several arguments
    have been raised against the existence of pawls at the nanoscale [@Moore2012].

17. Clamp

    If we think more generally as in something that keeps things attached then there
    are clamps at the molecular scale. For example the L1 stalk could be considered
    a clamp during translocation. This analogy may be a bit much though.

18. Rotor 

    There are rotor like things at the nanoscale. For example consider the ATP
    syntase [@Frank2011] or the bacterial flagellum [@Liu2007a].

19. Switches

    The entire field of riboswitches would indicate that their are switches
    [@Henkin2008]. These however are one use components.

I would like to point out that I'm not sure how good of an idea it is to compare
nanoscale objects or components to macroscopic components. I would suggest
taking something fairly clear like the tRNA and comparing it's suspected
macroscopic component to how it actually behaves on the nanoscale to see if the
analogy holds up. 

For example, if we find the top part of the tRNA bends downward to the upright
part then we may say there is a hinge. We should then examine to see if there is
a distinct region which acts like a hinge. If there is we would expect to see a
few distortions in that region and none elsewhere due to bending. However, we
may instead find there are distortions throughout the molecule and no one part
looks like a hinge. In that case, we would be hard pressed to compare it to a
macroscopic component.
