# Directed Motion Caused by Molecular Machines

> A second reason for using the term "molecular machine" is that these
> nano-scale machines give rise to directed motion of one or more of the objects
> on which they act, just as macroscopic machines do. In other words, they do work
> on these objects so that they are displaced from their original locations at the
> start of the cycle to a different location relative to the machine upon
> completion of a finite number of cycles of the machine. __For two different
> molecular machines, one of which should be the ribosome, describe the directed
> motions each machine gives rise to. Be sure to include: How many cycles of the
> machine are necessary to displace each particular object? How far does the
> object move? Sketch out what you would need to measure to calculate the energy
> needed to move the object, i.e. the work done on the object by the machine?__

## The Ribosome ##

The ribosome's machine functions are the movement of tRNA and mRNA across it's
surface. In detail this is accommodation, movement from the A to P site, then P
to E and finally exiting the ribosome. A tRNA requires 1 accommodation step and
3 elongation steps to cycle through the ribosome. The tRNA moves roughly 20nm
from one side of the ribosome to the other. To compute the work we would need to
know the force exerted at each step as well as the size of each step.

## The ATP Syntase ##

The machine function is the rotation of the central stalk. The syntase takes ADP
+ Pi and produces ATP. It takes 3 cycles to go from empty to ADP + Pi then to
ATP and back to empty. The object itself does not move, instead the central
stalk moves. To compute the work done I would need to know the distance the
stalk rotates as well as the force used and the radius of the syntase.
