# Methodological Concerns #

> Two important physical methods for determining the structures of molecular
> machines like the ribosome in different states are x-ray crystallography and
> cryo-EM microscopy. __Explain the basic physics behind each method to clarify
> the strengths and limitations of each method, i.e. compare and contrast
> them.__ Peter Moore says in his recent review that cryo-EM could one day
> provide a complete movie of the ribosome during translation in a single (or
> small number) of experiments ("that experiment would be game, set, match").
> __Why does he say that about cryo-EM and not about x-ray crystallography?__
> __What current problems with cryo-EM will have to be overcome to get to that
> point?__

The two main techniques for determining structure are X-ray crystallography and
cryo-election microscopy (cryo-EM). Both techniques produce a 3D picture of the
molecule being studied. They both have contributed greatly to our understanding
of the ribosome. Currently, X-ray methods have produced higher quality
structures of very specific states, while cryo-EM has produced lower resolution
structures in a broad range of states. This difference is due to the basics of
how these techniques work.

The key step in x-ray crystallography, and often one of the hardest, is
generating a crystal of the desired molecule. This is required because x-ray
diffraction currently requires a regular crystal for the x-rays to reflect off,
though this may not always be the case [@Tinoco2011]. Generating the crystal is
often hard for ribosomes because they are not rigid molecules. This flexibility
of them makes it difficult to create a crystal. However, there are several
tricks crystallographers have to force crystallization. They are, in no
particular order:

1.  Modification of the molecule
    For the ribosome this can mean removing whole helices or not including
    various ribo-proteins.

2.  Addition of antibiotics
    It has been found that various antibiotics promote the crystallization of
    ribosomes.

3.  Manipulation of the pH and salt conditions
    Unusual salt and pH conditions can help force crystallization be putting the
    molecule into a more rigid state.

With these tools it is possible to create a crystal of many molecules. Once such
a crystal is made then the crystal is taken to a beam line and bombard with
x-rays. These x-rays reflect off the electrons in the molecules. And because the
molecules are ordered in the crystal, a regular reflection pattern is produced.
This reflection pattern is the used to compute the electron cloud of the
molecules in the crystal. The cloud is then fit, often automatically, with the
chemical structure of the molecule. This produces a model of the molecules in
the crystal.

Cryo-election microscopy does not require the generation of a crystal. This
allows the experiment to be done in more natural conditions. This is one of the
major differences with X-ray crystallography.

This technique begins with a pure sample of ribosomes, which should be in a
relatively uniform state. That is to say, they should all be in roughly the same
part of the translation pathway. This sample is then flash frozen. This freezing
fixes all the molecules into whichever state they are currently in. This sample
is then deposited onto a grid for imaging by the electron microscope (EM). 

Each molecule in the sample is then scanned by the EM. This produces a series of
maps of the visible surface of each molecule. Cryo-em only observes the exposed
surface of  molecule. But because many molecules have been deposited in random
orientations and they are all in roughly the same state we are able to
reconstruct the entire molecule by piecing together many of the individual maps.
This is done by sorting each image into groups which are similar to each other.
These groups are then used to generate the whole 3D model. Often, the details of
where each base comes from fitting the overall structure with a high quality
structure from X-ray work.

This process of piecing together individual images of the surface of a ribosome
to generate a 3D model of the ribosome is current limitation of cryo-em. Right
now we need the ribosomes to be in relatively similar states. However, this is
only a limitation of the amiable methods of image sorting, not a theoretical
limit.  So once we get much better at sorting images from cryo-em we may be able
to remove the restriction of having relatively similar states. This means we
could 'simply' take a sample of molecules doing translation, freeze them, image
them with cryo-em and get pictures of all distinct conformations of the ribosome
along the pathway. This would be a major accomplishment. There is already some
work moving in that direction [@Bai2013]. However, it is not yet at the
requisite level of sensitivity. 

We would get to see all the major states found during translation. We would
still have to determine which movements are on pathway and which are off
pathway. In addition, we may not see short lived states or very rare
conformations with a simple experiment. This could be solved through
manipulation to bias the life time of short states or the rarity of states.

Peter Moore does not discuss doing something similar as this with X-ray work
because X-ray requires all molecules in a single or very few conformations
located in a crystal. This excludes the possibility of getting the number of
states that would be present during the full translation cycle. 

However, as Tinoco et al. point out it is possible to detect scattering from a
single molecule [@Tinoco2011]. This opens the tantalizing possibility of doing
single molecule imaging of ribosomes under going translation. Potentially this
could provide similar, but higher resolution, data to cryo-em. It may even be
possible to image a single molecule repeatedly to watch one molecule across the
entire pathway. I suspect, however, that the technical challenges for this
method are much higher than cryo-em. But it would be extremely informative (and
cool).
