# Free Energy of Elongation #

> Peter Moore maintains that no Brownian ratchet mechanism is needed to explain
> the directionality of the elongation cycle because 
> $\dG = -32 \frac{\mathrm{kJ}}{\mathrm{mol}}$ for peptide 
> bond formation using aminoacyl tRNA donors. __Show
> where this number come from by writing out the reaction and calculating the
> free energy change from chemical data. Show how to calculate it.__ (Hint: what
> kinds of bonds are made and what kinds of bonds are broken in this reaction?)

This number is computed by determine the free energy difference of the substrate
and the product of the reaction. The reaction in question is:

\[
\mathrm{tRNA}\bullet{}\mathrm{AA} + \mathrm{Polypeptide} \longrightarrow{} \mathrm{tRNA} + \mathrm{AA}\bullet{}\mathrm{Polypeptide}
\]

This reaction breaks the ester bond linking the tRNA and AA and produces a new
peptide bond between the AA and growing polypeptide chain. Thus to compute the
difference in free energy we get the difference between the produce and
substrate $\g$

\[
\dG = \g{}_{p} - \g{}_{s}
\]

I now assume that there is no entropy change between the products and reactants.
This changes the equation to:

\[
\dH = \h{}_{p} - \h{}_{s}
\]

The main difference between substrate and product is the breaking of the ester
bond and formation of the peptide bond. To calculate this $\dH$ I would need the
$\dH$ of each bond. Looking at
[http://www.cem.msu.edu/~reusch/OrgPage/bndenrgy.htm]() I find:

$$
\begin{array}{rcl}
\dH_{amide}   & = & 110 \\
\dH_{peptide} & = & 86 \\
\end{array}
$$

Leading to:

$$
\begin{array}{rcl}
\dH & = & \h{}_{p} - \h{}_{s} \\
\dH & = & \h{}_{peptide} - \h{}_{amide} \\
\dH & = & 86 - 110 \\
    & = & 24
\end{array}
$$

This is wrong. However, reading the Moore review [@Moore2012] he says:

\begin{quote}
free energy released when peptide bonds are synthesized using aminoacyl tRNAs as donors
\end{quote}

which indicates that there is some dependency on the donor (also his citation
points to a text book I can't find a copy of). I have no way of calculating this
exactly then. So this is my best effort at calculating the value, but I know
it's wrong.
