# Diffusion: How Long to Get There #

> When you drive down the highway the distance you travel is proportional to the
> time on the road (distance = velocity x time). If you drive 1 hour you go 70
> miles or so and in two hours, twice that or 140 miles. Is that how diffusion
> works? Do some calculations using the diffusion equations to find out --
> columns are provided on the spreadsheet. Calculate the rms distance that
> different size molecules or particles (water, tRNA, 100 kD Protein, 70S
> ribosome) travel over different times (10ps, 10ns, 10$\mu$s, 10ms). __Does
> distance = velocity x time?__ 
> 
> Discussion: In complete sentences reflect on the calculations by addressing
> questions like these: __Are the distances 1000 times longer from one time
> interval to the next?__ __How does the distance depend on the mass?__ Also
> calculate the first-passage time or time to diffuse a given distance. Use 5 nm
> which is how far tRNA moves from the P site to the E site. __How long does it
> take tRNA to travel this distance just by diffusion?__ __How does that time
> compare to the time for one elongation step?__ __Is it fast enough for
> translation (compare to time to add one amino acid to protein chain)__
>
> Ballistic vs. diffusive motion -- __What is the difference? Over what period of
> time is the motion of a molecule "inertial" and how can you calculate this
> characteristic time__ (Hint: it is called the "translation time constant"). Use
> the spreadsheet to calculate this time for different particles. 

## Diffusion Scaling ##

Net distance moved does not scale linearly with time as it does for directed
motion. Because diffusion is a random walk, your net distance may not be
proportional to the time.

## General Observations of Diffusion ##

For a plot of distance versus time for each molecule please examine Figure
\ref{fig:diffused}. This figure shows the distance diffused in nanometers for
each molecule. As we can see the distance is not linear with time. In addition,
it seems to decrease exponentially with mass. This can be seen by considering
the end points of all molecules. 

## Diffusion as the Mechanism of Elongation ##

It takes roughly 100ns for the tRNA to diffuse the 5nm between the A site and P
site. It has been measured to take several order of magnitude higher
[@Moore2012] for this process to occur, indicating this process could be
diffusive.

## Ballistic vs Diffuse motion ##

Ballistic motion is the everyday motion we are familiar with. This is
essentially motion due to inertia through some medium, like a baseball through
the air. This is a fairly linear regular motion. Diffusive motion is motion due
to thermal energy in the medium. This motion is a random walk. It has no inertia
and is not at all what we are used to. 

Molecules have a brief time when they have ballistic motion. This time is known
as the translation time constant and is known as $\tau$. It is calculated using
the following equation:

\[
\tau = \frac{m}{\gamma}
\]

Where $\gamma$ is the frictional coefficient and $m$ is mass. This value has
been computed for several molecules in Table \ref{table-5}.
