# Novel Insights to Ribosomal Translocation #

One of the major unsolved open problems in ribosomal function is the mechanism
of translation. Translocation is the process where a tRNA in the A site with the
growing polypeptide chain is moved from the A site to P site. The currently
understood mechanism is roughly as follows:

1.  The amino acid of the tRNA randomly moves between the A site and P site of
    the LSU. This motion is driven solely by thermal motion and is known as the hybrid
    state. The P site tRNA also fluctuates between the E and P site. Both tRNA
    remain bound to the A and P site in the SSU. In addition, the SSU enters the
    rotated state where it is rotated counter-clockwise relative to the LSU. This
    state is neccessary for tRNA translocation and the hybrid state.
2.  EF-G(GTP) binds the ribosome and stabilizes the rotated state.
3.  EF-G(GTP) hydrolyzes GTP to GDP + Pi and remains bound to the ribosome.
    This causes domain IV of EF-G moves down to interact with the SSU A site
4.  The tRNA translocates from the A site to P site and in a coordinated fashion
    the mRNA moves one codon. This causes the release of Pi from EF-G. In
    addition, the E site tRNA is released and P site moves to the E site.
5.  EF-G(GDP) is released from the ribosome. At this point translocation is
    complete.

It is believed that the fundamental mechanism of translocation is that of a
Brownian Ratchet [@Moore2012]. This is a molecular device which rectifies
thermal motion to select only the desirable motions [@Moore2012], [@Howard2001].
Without rectification thermal motion is as just as likely to move backward as
forward. If this mechanism is true then the energy from GTP hydrolysis would be
used to select the motion or to reset once the correct state is selected
[@Moore2012]. This type of molecular machine has been shown to explain the
function of RNA polymerase [@Abbondanzieri2006].

There is an alternative type of molecular machine which has not yet been ruled
out to explain ribosome function. This is known as a powerstroke machine.
Powerstroke machines create directional motion through the release of tension.
This release of tension provides a force which biases the random motion in a
direction. It takes very little force, only a few pico newtons, to bias random
motion significantly [@Howard2001]. In a power stroke machine energy is used to
create or release tension in a molecule. This contrasts with Brownian ratchet
where all the force comes from thermal motion. Both mechanisms require the
random motions of thermal noise to function but they do not harness this the
same way. A powerstroke mechanism is known to occur in kinesin molecules
[@Howard2001].

The current mechanism of translocation is not very detailed and we are still
missing several important pieces of information. For example, what states does
the ribosome undergo while translocating, what is the role of GTP and is EF-G
really a Brownian ratchet?

Recently several structures of intermediate states translocation have been
published [@Zhou2013], [@Tourigny2013], [@Pulk2013]. This work gives us a much
better picture of the intermediate states of translocation. Briefly, these
papers show us that the tRNA's have a state between the hybrid state and final
state [@Zhou2013]. Domain IV of EF-G moves into an intermediate state where
domain IV is not fully extend into the A site [@Tourigny2013]. And the switch
domain of EF-G becomes ordered [@Pulk2013].

These studies provide us with the structural information on the mechanism of
translocation but do not provide information about kinetics. The recent work by
Belardinelli *et al* [@Belardinelli2013] is a key paper in understanding the
kinetics of translocation and raises some important questions about function of
EF-G.

Belardinelli *et al* study the effect of GTP hydrolysis on the rates of
translocation. They do this using a novel EF-G mutant that is defective in
hydrolysis.

Some previous work with intact EF-G's show that translocation is sped up with
GTP hydrolysis [@Katunin2002] and GTP hydrolysis occurs much before
translocation [@Rodnina1997], and that translocation is correlated with the
movement of Domain IV of EF-G [@Munro2010]. In addition, it is known that E site
release does not occur without GTP hydrolysis [@Belardinelli2013]. Finally,
other work has shown that translocation rate is increased by GTP hydrolysis
[@Rodnina1997]. The fact that rate is increased by hydrolysis and that
hydrolysis occurs much before translocation is taken to mean that the energy of
hydrolysis is somehow used in translocation. The way this energy is used is an
open question.

The current model, which is supported by bulk phase work [@Belitsina1975],
[@Inoue-Yokosawa1974] and SM-FRET studies [@Tinoco2011] does not consider the
energy from GTP hydrolysis as important for driving translocation. This model
uses suggests the GTP binds to the ribosome and stabilizes the state that allows
tRNA translocation [@Tinoco2011]. The cleavage of GTP serves to put EF-G into a
low affinity state where does not bind to the ribosome as well.

However, this previous work uses a non-hydrolyzable analog of GTP, GDPNP, but
the authors find a 1% contamination of GTP in supposedly pure samples of GDPNP.
This level contamination would affect many experiments on translocation and
hides the role of GTP and EF-G in translocation. They argue that this could
explain some discrepancies in the current literature.

In order to deal with the contamination issue the authors created a mutant EF-G
that binds GTP and GDP with wild type affinity but does not hydrolyze GTP to
GDP. This mutant was created by changing the histidine at position 91 to an
alanine. This residue is conserved across many different related molecules
[@Belardinelli2013].

Using this mutant they performed a series of experiments. First they showed that
it binds to GTP with nearly the same affinity as the native protein and it does
not hydrolyze GTP. This confirmed that it should function like native EF-G but
without cleaving GTP. They then tested the rates of translocation using various
fluorophoes. They monitored the movement of the tRNA from A site to P site, P
site to E site, E site off the ribosome and the movement of the mRNA.

Here they found translocation was slow without hydrolysis. All movements were
slowed down, except that of the movement from E-site off the ribosome. This
could be due to experimental conditions however. Interestingly, they found the
motion of the mRNA was different than that of the tRNA movement. They found a
step in mRNA translocation which occurred slower than the tRNA A to P site
translocation. This step occurred at the same rate when wildtype EF-G was
present. This may indicate a step in mRNA translocation which is directly
effected by GTP hydrolysis [@Belardinelli2013].

Then they tested the strength of the EF-G/ribosome complexes. They found that
EF-G was bound tightly enough to prevent the binding of EF-Tu/tRNA and strong
enough to remain intact during centrifugation. The wildtype enzyme required a
bound antibiotic to remain attached during centrifugation. This indicates that
EF-G needs GDP in order to unbind from the ribosome.

This conclusions, along with previous work, poses a questions for the current
paradigm in ribosome function. Specifically what is the role of GTP hydrolysis
in translocation? It is clear that hydrolysis is needed for rapid translocation,
particularly for movement of mRNA. We can also see that EF-G needs GDP to
release from the ribosome.

These experiments on their own do not address the fundamental question in
translocation, is the mechanism a Brownian ratchet or powerstroke machine.
However using this data we can suggest a powerstroke mechanism that accounts for
these observations.

Binding of EF-G/GTP to the ribosome triggers catalysis of GTP. This then creates
places strain in some part of EF-G. This part is likely between the connection
to domain IV as this is the region which moves. This strain causes the movement
of domain IV into the A site. Once translocation occurs the strain is released
by the release of Pi. This puts EF-G/GDP into a loose binding state which is
then released from the ribosome. 

This mechanism is similar to the mechanism of motor proteins [@Howard2001].
Motor proteins cycle through tight and loose binding states by cycling through
GTP and GDP. In addition the hydrolysis reaction provides a mechanism for
generating tension which is then released.

However, there are several problems with this mechanism. Namely a powerstroke
requires that tension be built and then released from the molecule. In order to
build this tension there must be a flexible hinge like region that deforms to
store the tension. And finally, powerstroke mechanisms push something. What is
EF-G pushing here [@Howard2001]? Is the rotation of ribosomal subunits being
driven by the movements of domain IV of EF-G? If that is the case then is the
movement of tRNA from A site to P site purely diffusive? How is EF-G release
from the ribosome coupled the translocation? How is movement from other sites
effected by GTP hydrolysis? Many details of this mechanism need clarification
from father experiments.

In addition, this is not the only model that could explain current observations.
Instead of working as lever the role of domain IV could be to bind to the
correct state as a rectification mechanisms as is currently believed. This
experiment could only be serving to rule out the role of EF-G serving to perform
conformation trapping on the correct state.

In order to distinguish between the two possible mechanisms several experiments
should be done. Firstly, a measurements of the force produced by the ribosome
during translocation would immediately determine if the mechanism is a Brownian
ratchet or a powerstroke as suggest by Moore [@Moore2012]. Because a Brownian
ratchet uses thermal motions only the force generate is limited by the thermal
force. Powerstrokes may produce more force. An example of this type of force
measurements is the work by Abbondanzieri *et al* [@Abbondanzieri2006]. They
determined that the motion of RNA polymerase is is a Brownian ratchet and not a
powerstroke by measuring force as the polymerase moved. This experiment is very
technically challenging and is not likely to be done soon. There are other
simpler experiments which can be done to help understand translocation.

One obvious experiment that may be underway is to do SM-FRET using this mutant.
We would want to ask questions abouts the detailed rates and motions of A and P
site tRNA when this mutant is present. In addition, rates of E-site dissociation
should be reexamined. Simply redoing much of previous work in translocation with
this mutant would clarify many of the issues literature. 

Another experiment would be to examine the rate of domain IV movement with the
rate of translocation. If domain IV is driving the process than the rate of it's
motion should correlate with that of translocation. Some related work has been
done [@Rodnina1997], but this work only deletes domain IV and finds that it is
key to translocation. It does not monitor the rate if domain IV movement and
translocation.

In addition, their observations on mRNA movement are very interesting. Much work
on translocation has examined the movement of tRNA and less considers that of
the mRNA [@Rodnina2011a]. A more detailed study of mRNA movement, possibly with
SM-FRET, using this mutant would be exciting.

In summary, this paper does not overturn our fundamental understanding of
translocation. It does provide good evidence for changing the role of EF-G and
GTP hydrolysis in translocation. We can suggest some alternative mechanisms as a
result of the data. One such mechanism is based on a powerstroke model while the
current paradigm is that of a Brownian ratchet. Currently we cannot distinguish
between a Brownian ratchet like mechanism and a powerstroke mechanism. It is
unclear if this mechanism is how the ribosome works but it is possible. More
experiments need to be done to determine what type of machine the ribosome is
[@Moore2012]. 

Personally, I think EF-G functions through a Brownian ratchet
mechanism but the alternative must be considered. My reasoning is that the
powerstroke model I have proposed here has too many holes. How does movement of
domain IV lead to favoring the rotated state? What is storing tension? Where is
that tension being released? These are essential parts of a powerstroke
mechanism but I cannot see how they fit into the current picture of ribosome
translocation. That said, I suggest this mechanism as a possible alternative
because I'm sure it can be refined and cannot be excluded with the current
evidence.
